feat: add support for group level branch protection settings (#1251)
egnyte/gitlabform: docs/reference/protected_branches.md

This section purpose is to manage the [protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_branches.html).

## Group-level protected branches

This section purpose is to manage the [group-level protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/group_protected_branches.html).

!!! info

    This section requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

!!! warning

>     Protected branch settings for groups are restricted to top-level groups only. (This is a GitLab limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

Reviewer: I have been thinking about this. I think we might need a separate section for this topic. Here's my thought:

Long before GitLab added the capability to configure branch protection at the group level, GitLabForm's config syntax (i.e. `my-group/*` pattern) allowed managing  branch protection for all projects under that group from a single config. So, if we look at "project level branch" protection, but configured/managed in one place like group level setting, this is already achievable without group level branch protection and there are no limits in terms of top-level group only.

I hope I was able to explain what I mean above. Definitely needs to be explained clearly, but I'm wondering maybe this should be clearly explained in the doc.

What do you think?

Author: I understand what you mean. We need to explain the difference clearly, and also indicate that branch protection on projects is possible in all variants of GitLab.

Author: Added extra explanation at top-level

Author: Do you want to leave the "old" text where it is, so including the top-level text? Or is the top-level text sufficient, and can I use that to simplify the text below? Feel free to offer code suggestions if you want to remove something or change the text.

Reviewer 2: @rickbrouwer - sorry if this is explained elsewhere; I'm just working my way down from the top of the PR.

What happens if I mix patterns in my GitLabForm config e.g.

```
top-group:
   group_branches:
       main:
           protected: true
           push_access_level: maintainer
top-group/sub-group/*:
  branches:
      main:
           protected: false
           push_access_level: maintainer
```
or:
```
top-group:
   group_branches:
       main:
           protected: true
           push_access_level: maintainer
top-group/sub-group/*:
  branches:
      main:
           protected: true
           push_access_level: no access
```

Author: The project will then have protection with a lock on it:

<img width="1215" height="206" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/876c9d30-5499-484a-9726-c93d16087a19" />

Reviewer 2: @rickbrouwer cool - that's kind of what I expected to happen, top-level takes priority, preventing users only with access to sub-groups overriding some security practice enforced at the top level.

Could you add a note to the .md file that this is expected behaviour please?

Author: Well... from another look, you can override it.

I think Gitlab is saying something like: "Your own (project) setting isn't necessary, because it already exists at the group level... but if you want something different yourself, that's fine."

Do you think that's worth documenting, or is it more something where if a user sets one at the group level ánd one at the project level, that person figures out for themselves how GitLab handles it?

<img width="1235" height="351" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/87a38269-0c0a-46e9-87fb-e44e7433adc2" />

Reviewer 2: Ah got you

I feel like it's worth a quick note on how GitLab functions, we do that elsewhere in the Docs and link out to GitLab documentation where we can, just to help our end-users navigate the settings based on our learnings. As often GL don't make it clear themselves!

Author: added a note https://github.com/gitlabform/gitlabform/pull/1251/changes/a8e0c8b36e7fc06e0658ab82d47e75cb221c6d10

This section purpose is to manage the [protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/protected_branches.html).

## Group-level protected branches

!!! info

    This section requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

!!! warning

    Protected branch settings for groups are restricted to top-level groups only.

This section purpose is to manage the [group-level protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/group_protected_branches.html).

> Note: group protected branches only support access levels. Individual users and groups cannot be specified (this is a GitLab API limitation).

Reviewer: Suggesting minor tweak and highlight GitLab API limitation.

```suggestion
This section purpose is to manage the [group-level protected branches](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/group_protected_branches.html).

!!! info

    This section requires GitLab Premium (paid). (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

!!! warning

    Protected branch settings for groups are restricted to top-level groups only. (This is a GitLab's limitation, not GitLabForm's.)

    Group protected branches only support access levels. Individual users and groups cannot be specified (this is a GitLab API limitation).
```

> The supported keys are: `protected`, `push_access_level`, `merge_access_level`, `unprotect_access_level`, `allow_force_push`, and `code_owner_approval_required`.

Reviewer: I suggest we remove this or rephrase it differently so that we're not explicitly listing supported keys.

GitLabForm's users are expected to be familiar with GitLab's API to know what attributes are supported. Since one of the architecture/design of GitLabForm is "raw parameter passing", any attributes supported by GitLab's API in future will be supported automatically, assuming the processor is implemented correctly and no unexpected surprises from GitLab's API :)

Hope that makes sense.

Author: yeah, I will remove that
